README.md, before:

# Twilio → MQTT Gateway

A web application that implements a Twilio callback to relay incoming SMS
messages to a MQTT server.

This allows a number of clients to subscribe to incoming SMS messages, without
each requiring a web presence.

For the original motivation, see the Olin Library
[Bear-as-a-Service](https://github.com/olinlibrary/bear-as-a-service) project.

Each number `+16175551212` is published with topic `incoming-sms-16175551212`,
and with a payload of the JSON-encoded HTTP request form fields.

## Deploy

Provision a RabbitMQ server. I'm using
[CloudAMQP](https://www.cloudamqp.com). Note its URL.

For each provisioned phone number

```bash
rabbitmqadmin declare queue name=incoming-sms-16175551010
rabbitmqadmin declare binding source=amq.topic destination_type=queue \
    destination=incoming-sms-16175551010 routing_key=incoming-sms-16175551010
```

Execute the following. Replace the value of MQTT_URL by the URL of your
RabbitMQ server.

```bash
$ heroku create
$ heroku config:set $ MQTT_URL='mqtt://username:password@termite.rmq.cloudamqp.com:1883/vhost'
$ git push heroku master
```

Optional `config:set RESPONSE_TEXT`. if set, the gateway responds with this
text to incoming messages.

Provision a Twilio phone number. Set its messaging webhook to `https://sharp-rain-871.herokuapp.com/sms_webhook`, where `sharp-rain-871`
is the name of your Heroku app.

In RabbitMQ, for each phone number `+16175551010`, create a queue named
`incoming-sms-16175551010`, and bind it with that same name to the topic
exchange.

You can also do this programmatically. See the Jupyter notebook in this repo
for an example.

## Develop

Either set install a local RabbitMQ server, *or* set `MQTT_URL` to a remote
server.

Run `python twilio_gateway.py`.

Install [ngrok](https://ngrok.com). In another terminal, run
`ngrok http 5000`. This gives your local webserver a public hostname that you
can configure Twilio to connect to.

1. Go to the Twilio phone number configuration page, e.g. <https://www.twilio.com/console/phone-numbers/{sid}>.
2. Under "Messaging: A Message Comes In", set the webhook to the server URL
   followed by the `/sms_webhook` path, e.g.
   `https://c115d7a2.ngrok.io/sms_webhook`.

### Use a local RabbitMQ server

For local development, you may find it useful to run a local RabbitMQ server.

macOS: `brew install rabbitmq` (and then follow the instructions to launch the
daemon, now and on restart).

Add `rabbitmqadmin` to your path. (On macOS: `export
PATH=/usr/local/Cellar/rabbitmq/3.7.2/sbin/:PATH`.) Alternatively, you can
replace `rabbitmqadmin` by `/path/to/rabbitmqadmin` in the instructions below.

Create a queue for your phone number:

```bash
rabbitmqadmin declare queue name=incoming-sms-16175551010
rabbitmqadmin declare binding source=amq.topic destination_type=queue \
    destination=incoming-sms-16175551010 routing_key=incoming-sms-16175551010
```
## License

MIT

Commit message:

README: add a diagram; rename the notebook

README.md, after:

# Twilio → MQTT Gateway

A web application implementing a Twilio webhook handler, that relay incoming SMS
messages to an MQTT server.

![](./docs/network-diagram.png)

This allows a number of clients to subscribe to incoming SMS messages, without
each requiring a web presence.

For the original motivation, see the Olin Library
[Bear-as-a-Service](https://github.com/olinlibrary/bear-as-a-service) project.

Each number `+16175551212` is published with topic `incoming-sms-16175551212`,
and with a payload of the JSON-encoded HTTP request form fields.

## Deploy

Provision a RabbitMQ server. (I'm using
[CloudAMQP](https://www.cloudamqp.com).) Note your server's URL.

For each provisioned phone number

```bash
rabbitmqadmin declare queue name=incoming-sms-16175551010
rabbitmqadmin declare binding source=amq.topic destination_type=queue \
    destination=incoming-sms-16175551010 routing_key=incoming-sms-16175551010
```

Execute the following. Replace the value of MQTT_URL by the URL of your
RabbitMQ server.

```bash
$ heroku create
$ heroku config:set $ MQTT_URL='mqtt://username:password@termite.rmq.cloudamqp.com:1883/vhost'
$ git push heroku master
```

Optional `config:set RESPONSE_TEXT`. if set, the gateway responds with this
text to incoming messages.

Provision a Twilio phone number. Set its messaging webhook to `https://sharp-rain-871.herokuapp.com/sms_webhook`, where `sharp-rain-871`
is the name of your Heroku app.

In RabbitMQ, for each phone number `+16175551010`, create a queue named
`incoming-sms-16175551010`, and bind it with that same name to the topic
exchange.

You can also do this programmatically. See the Jupyter notebook in this repo
for an example.

## Manage

See the [wiki](https://github.com/olin-build/twilio-mqtt-gateway/wiki/Runbook) and the [server management notebook](./Server%20Management%20Recipes.ipynb).

## Develop

Either set install a local RabbitMQ server, *or* set `MQTT_URL` to a remote
server.

Run `python twilio_gateway.py`.

Install [ngrok](https://ngrok.com). In another terminal, run
`ngrok http 5000`. This gives your local webserver a public hostname that you
can configure Twilio to connect to.

1. Go to the Twilio phone number configuration page, e.g. <https://www.twilio.com/console/phone-numbers/{sid}>.
2. Under "Messaging: A Message Comes In", set the webhook to the server URL
   followed by the `/sms_webhook` path, e.g.
   `https://c115d7a2.ngrok.io/sms_webhook`.

### Use a local RabbitMQ server

For local development, you may find it useful to run a local RabbitMQ server.

macOS: `brew install rabbitmq` (and then follow the instructions to launch the
daemon, now and on restart).

Add `rabbitmqadmin` to your path. (On macOS: `export
PATH=/usr/local/Cellar/rabbitmq/3.7.2/sbin/:PATH`.) Alternatively, you can
replace `rabbitmqadmin` by `/path/to/rabbitmqadmin` in the instructions below.

Create a queue for your phone number:

```bash
rabbitmqadmin declare queue name=incoming-sms-16175551010
rabbitmqadmin declare binding source=amq.topic destination_type=queue \
    destination=incoming-sms-16175551010 routing_key=incoming-sms-16175551010
```
## License

MIT
